>>REGINA MEREDITH: What
were the elements that
caused the fall of Rome?
We've read about gluttony
and bizarre sexual practices,
but what does this have in
common with our world today
in terms of excess and
its impact on society?
Steven Ross is with
us, and we might
say that it has something
to do with a lack of wisdom.
And this is part two
of our conversation
about the real
meaning of alchemy
and its essence at the
center of our lives.
>>STEVEN ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: So wisdom-- no wisdom,
lots of knowledge, no wisdom.
>>ROSS: Exactly.
And before we get to what
happened with ancient cultures
in Rome, what you've
brought up with wisdom
is very, very important.
There is such a difference
between knowledge and wisdom.
And we can look at our
iPhones, our cellphones today.
We have access to
tremendous knowledge.
You mentioned it before, so I
hate to use one of your lines,
because you should
get credit for it.
But when you look
at the ancients,
we have so much knowledge
in our hand with our phones
that these
individuals never had.
They had to travel
all over the world.
They sought.
They looked
everywhere they could.
And we can instantly draw up
any kind of knowledge we want.
>>REGINA: Within an hour what
it took them lifetimes to learn.
>>ROSS: That's exactly right.
>>REGINA: --by way
of information.
>>ROSS: But my understanding,
from studying and reading,
was they weren't just
picking up knowledge.
They were picking up wisdom.
And we have all of
this knowledge today.
But does that make us wise?
>>REGINA: Well, that's why
we're going to talk about Rome
and what it might have in
common with today's world.
And our last conversations,
the last conversation,
we went into the
essence of the need
for love, the solvent of
the universe, the thing that
heals all, trumps all,
can transform all.
We talked about that.
And we also talked about
the need for beauty, and how
the ancients honored this
as above, so below symmetry,
and native beauty that
we can all recognize
and that brings
tears to our eyes
because it's coming
from our hearts.
But we didn't have a chance
to touch on wisdom and Sophia.
So before we get right
into the Sophia part,
let's talk about Rome.
What happened?
And what's happening now?
What's the lens?
>>ROSS: They went to
conquer the world.
And they did conquer
the world, most
of the known world at the time.
But one has to ask, what
did they really conquer?
And what did they learn
from what they accumulated?
That is basically
the underpinning
of our entire show.
It is the ability or the desire
of individuals to accumulate,
to have.
Many people say, oh,
no, I like the freedom.
Freedom is very, very important.
Freedom is important,
but there's
a question of how wisely
you use that freedom.
Does freedom just mean that
you just go willy nilly,
take what you want,
do what you want,
dress how you want because
that is very freeing?
The question is is that wise?
Now, who decides on the criteria
what is wise and what isn't?
Well, the ancient would look
at it in the following way.
They looked at archetypes.
They looked at
the higher spheres
and believed that there were
archetypes for beauty, truth,
even what the perfect
physician should be.
Yes, there was an
archetype of what would
be the ultimate physician?
The ultimate physician would
have a total understanding
of nature, would have
love and compassion,
would know exactly
what a patient needed,
the wonderful bedside manner.
That would be the
perfect archetype.
That would be wisdom coming
from the founts of wisdom,
the founts of all archetypes
funneling down to us.
So what happened with
the Roman Empire?
They were really never wise.
They had accumulated--
>>REGINA: But it is passed
down from the Greeks.
What happened?
What was the point of
corruption, so to speak?
And then, of course, the Greeks
from the Egyptians, and one
would even say the Atlanteans--
even Plato would say that.
>>ROSS: On the previous
show, we gave the real life
account of what Paracelsus
discovered of an individual who
locked themselves
into a room and died
from their own atmosphere.
When you have a
prevailing atmosphere that
is very, very limiting to
any outside influences,
you have stagnation.
Now, one may say,
well, wait a minute.
They were gluttony.
They were doing this.
No.
They had stagnated as a culture.
They had limited any kind
of information and beliefs
coming from other sources,
because they knew it all.
They had it all.
They controlled all.
And they placed
themselves, basically,
as deities-- that
they knew better.
Even though it's a little bit
of a stretch for some people
to say, well, wait a
minute-- there was freedom.
And they were off doing this,
and the sexual practices.
No, because when you cut
yourself off from any stream,
you are going to have a
corruption of the energy
that is existing in that
environment, in that sphere.
Now, sometimes, they tend to
go a bit higher in precepts
than down at the level.
But in the higher precepts, this
is what we're talking about.
Any corruption of the energy
flow coming from around us
will lead to death
and destruction,
whether it is the
physical body, whether it
is a religion, a philosophy,
or an entire culture.
They had cut themselves
off from any kind
of higher wisdom
coming into them,
because they were not operating
from that part of the being
that draws wisdom in.
>>REGINA: It was almost as
though their entire ethos was
based on hand me downs, hand
me downs from the Greeks
that became distorted
and irrelevant,
hand me down
mythological characters,
hand me down ethics.
>>ROSS: This is what's
happened, Regina.
>>REGINA: And it
didn't have relevance.
Yeah.
>>ROSS: Well, we have
taken images and figures
and we have brought them
into what we want them to be.
There is individuals who are
talking about the philosopher
Ficino who translated a lot
of the hermetic teachings
into Latin so it could be read.
And what I heard from
these individuals
was the hermetic philosophers
were anticipating
the arrival of Jesus.
And because of
that, this is what
they were really talking about.
Now, that is ridiculous
and that is nonsense,
because in the
individual culture,
this is what they
were talking about
in the ancient philosophies.
I heard a statement
that biblical scholars
say that Hermes Trismegistus,
the Egyptian wise one,
was really Enoch.
>>REGINA: No, oh, no, no.
OK.
Yeah.
>>ROSS: It's like, oh, OK.
You bend and twist so the
hand me downs that you spoke
of-- you take this
little hand me down
and then you dress it the
way you want it to be.
And then you make it so that
it fits into your philosophy
so that there will be an
acceptance from your members.
So all these people,
previously, Jesus had to go down
and to Hell to release of
them because God didn't
protect all of these people
for 10s of thousands of years
before.
But now, our teacher's
going to do that.
And before anybody thinks
I'm too sacrilegious,
I happen to think that Jesus
was a tremendous example,
a beautiful teacher, a loving
individual, an archetype.
But there have been many
individuals throughout time
for their cultures.
So the hand me downs are good
if there is an integrity.
Here, we're back
to that term again.
>>REGINA: Yes.
There was.
It was like the
fabric had already
unraveled by that point.
>>ROSS: It goes.
>>REGINA: So now let's
overlay what happened there.
And what are our modern
day hand me downs?
Where are we with this?
At least they had another
somewhat more advanced culture
to receive from, another more
advanced culture before them.
Now, we've been kind of in the
wilderness for a while here.
We went through the Dark Ages.
What are our hand me downs now?
>>ROSS: Well, here's
a hand me down.
So kind of it-- so we'll
just stretch a little.
In ancient days, people were
considered great because of how
they acted and what they said.
And in today's world,
someone's considered great
because they came from
Harvard, because they
came from this university,
because this person has got all
this acknowledgement
that they are
wise because they have a PhD.
They have a degree.
And they know.
That was not the
ancient teachings.
There was no degrees
back then, necessarily.
It was on the truth and
integrity of the person's life
and what they taught
and how they walked.
Now, today, we don't
have that anymore.
The guru is-- if MIT said
that the world is really flat,
I absolutely guarantee
you that there
is a whole culture of
people who will go and say,
you know, gosh, that
must be correct.
Why?
Because it's coming out of MIT.
>>REGINA: I don't think
we have to stretch
to see the hand me down there.
They're taking whatever
information had been somehow
gained maybe 50, 100 years
ago, maybe 20 years ago,
and they're just
regurgitating it.
It's really a
regurgitation process.
>>ROSS: Well, and
it's a regurgitation--
>>REGINA: It's not
original thought.
>>ROSS: --with no life--
>>REGINA: No, that's right.
>>ROSS: --when
you take any text,
it is a closed system,
as if the deity,
the god has nothing
fresh for us today.
And we're using thous and
things from the terminology.
There is the freshness of life.
There are these
flows that exist.
And today, students are
placed in little boxes.
If you're too
creative, you have to--
you're a student
that we can't handle.
You've got to go into
some special school
because that
student doesn't want
to learn "in 1492, Columbus
sailed the ocean blue."
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ROSS: They're already
thinking in higher dimensions.
The hand me downs that
have come, unfortunately,
in my understanding,
are ones of control
and are not coming through
what the ancients termed
as imagination.
>>REGINA: No.
They're not.
And you're ridiculed
as a little person
if you go too far into
the world of imagination
and original thought.
So it's not really even
encouraged in this world.
>>ROSS: Right.
Now, that leads us to one
of the highest precepts.
We talked about love
as being the solvent.
But one of the highest precepts
that some of the ancients
taught on the tools of
getting to that state
were a very simple phrase of
imagination, faith, and will.
Now, those simple little words--
for the ancients, imagination
was not your mental wanderings
of hypothetical things.
That is what they
called fantasy.
Imagination, for
some of the ancients,
wasn't some kind
of preprogramming.
That would be called
visualization.
Imagination, to some of
the ancient teachers,
was that part of our being
where this supreme, ultimate,
beautiful guidance came
from the higher spheres
through the individual.
That is what was
meant as imagination.
And that wisdom
would come through.
So Paracelsus, again-- I
know I speak about him a lot,
but he was really
an alchemist who
left us a lot of tools to use.
He said, if you want
to learn about what
herb is going to
be the best, you
sit cross legged in
front of the herbs
or the flowers or the trees,
and nature will teach you,
because the way
to learn nature is
to walk her branches,
to walk her leaves.
What he meant was when
you place yourself
in an imaginative state-- he
didn't have the terminology
for different parts
of mind-- that
meant you have an open channel.
And the beauty of this that
I want all of your listeners
understand is this is
not the mystery arcana.
This is not this hidden wisdom
that nobody could attain.
You act in a humble manner
to receive from the world,
from the cosmos, from anything.
The teachings-- we have that.
You're not given it.
You're not going to receive
it from a guru or a teacher.
it from other books.
You and I and everybody has
access to the greatest wisdom,
because everything
that existed outside,
according to the ancients,
exists inside-- the macrocosm
and the microcosm.
These words are
so thrown around,
people don't understand it.
Every star that exists, every
plant outside, is within us.
What is the term wisdom mean?
The wisdom is coming from
the source rather than
some appointed person
who's just interpreting.
>>REGINA: Regurgitating, right.
>>ROSS: And their
interpretation may not
be-- regurgitation
is a better word--
than you can do on your own.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
So that takes us into Sophia.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
And let's-- you had a
dream that was profound,
which is going to go back to
the word you used a moment ago,
which has to do with humility,
because it would appear that
an out of balance-- we call
it ego, whatever it is--
an out of balance psyche is
going to be the very thing that
will stand in the way of our
ability to connect with wisdom
and imagination.
OK.
>>ROSS: Now, several people,
not only in ancient times,
but in more modern
eras-- I'm going
to use the 1500s as modern.
But Jakob Bohme, a
philosopher, actually
believed that he experienced
the goddess of wisdom, Sophia,
who came to him as a true,
real, entity energy pattern.
As strange as that
may seem, Carl Jung
also believed that very, very
strongly, in our modern era,
that this was an archetype.
This Sophia was something real.
It is an energy
pattern from the deity.
I don't think it's so strange,
because my understanding is
that Christ is the
epitome of love.
Jesus was an individual.
The Christ was an energy pattern
of such a magnitude of love
that this individual Jesus
lived the life of love.
>>REGINA: But as we stated
in our last conversation, so
did JR Newton, for example.
>>ROSS: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And so do many people
that we see-- not many, maybe,
but sprinkled around
the planet are
people that are able to reach
into that level of refinement
and live it.
>>ROSS: And that is why,
if you replace the word
"Christ" in the New Testament
with the word "love"
and then look at
how that book reads,
one may find it very,
very interesting.
So now, they also believed--
individuals believed--
that Sophia, or
wisdom, is personified
as a beautiful woman.
And there's an
alchemical drawing
of the philosopher on the
path with his little lamp.
And there was
Sophia walking ahead
of him, just ahead
on the pathway,
leading this philosopher along.
So the wisdom is there.
>>REGINA: He was
stumbling in the dark.
>>ROSS: He was.
>>REGINA: Holding is
little lantern, I think--
did he have a little lantern?
>>ROSS: A little alchemic-- yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: That is the alchemy.
So this other part-- now,
before I read any of this,
about Carl Jung and
really read Jakob Bohme,
quite a few years
ago, I was preparing
the night before for a lecture
that I would give the next day.
And I had a dream
vision, and I wanted
to share it with you and your
guests or your listeners.
I was walking along the ocean.
The ocean was to my left.
And I was walking with all of
the seekers, all the people
in the world who were looking
for greater enlightenment
and to be better people.
We were all walking
together on the sand.
And in front of
us, I saw a woman
in blue holding a
microphone, trying to talk.
And I'm saying trying because
we couldn't hear the words.
Now, to my right was
a horseshoe stands.
And in these stands were all
these people who have written
books, the weekend
courses, the seminars,
a lot of people that
have very high profile.
But coming from them was
a smoke, fog, pollution.
And I stopped for a second.
And I was wondering,
what is happening here?
Because if these
people are producing
smog and smoke and
obliterating wisdom
and the hearing of
wisdom, how are us people
supposed to get in tune
with higher precepts?
And a tremendous wind
blew off the ocean
and cleared up all
of this pollution.
And I heard the following words.
All that is needed
for individuals
is a beautiful heart, an open
mind, and a humble spirit.
And when I woke up,
I cried a little bit.
I cried because
in its simplicity,
it is very profound.
>>REGINA: Yes, it is.
>>ROSS: And in its action of
life-- I used it the next day.
I spoke, because I don't use
notes when I speak to audience.
So I didn't have to rewrite.
But I incorporated
it into my talk
and I challenged
everybody in the audience.
Can you do this?
Can you have a beautiful
heart in your life?
So with each step you take,
are you planting flowers
or creating swells?
Can you be open to
this imagination part
and allow wisdom to talk to you?
But can you do it
in a humble manner?
Paracelsus, Pythagoras-- I
shared in your first segment
the great philosopher
Pythagoras, so humble
in saying that
everybody who I meet,
something is going
to be exchanged.
And we had a Paracelsus who
went to gypsies, midwives,
the barbers, sorcerers, because
he said truth, wisdom, is
available all over, because this
is what the deity has provided.
This is a schoolroom.
The earth plane is a schoolroom
where we learn lessons and have
experiences.
So can we have that
beautiful heart with love?
Can we so unfetter our minds?
And I used a little
gimmick during my talk.
I had a Velcro strap.
And I would--
[IMITATING VELCRO NOISES]--
because I tried to show--
Plato said life is not learning
anything new.
It is remembering things
we've already known in spirit.
So is it possible
that despite what
a lot of these modern
people are saying
with their alchemical teachings
and a minutia of books
that the secret is to
go back to simplicity,
to unlearn some of
these attachments that
are like barnacles on our ship
as we're sailing through life?
It is a lot easier
than is made out.
Now, of course, people can
challenge and say, you know,
Steve, you have made a
statement that these people who
are teaching all
these courses-- why
aren't they demonstrating it?
They purport to have the
rainbow light, be in this,
but I don't see their followers
or their people demonstrating.
Nor do I see individuals who
are walking and demonstrating
the precepts of
healing and the wisdom
that they are sharing or telling
other people that they have.
>>REGINA: Yes, this is true.
>>ROSS: So I believe,
I acknowledge,
that everybody has different
criterias of what they
think is a fulfilling life.
I will state, for those
people who have watched
and know what I stand for, that
things have been accomplished.
But everybody can do it.
We are no different.
I am no different
than other people.
They don't know my life.
But I will share that I
have received information
that came direct that has led to
myself having a life of beauty
and love and fun and what
I feel is accomplishment.
I would challenge other
people who tell us
that they have the
secret of the ages
to just stand up and let people
just look at them and ask,
do you really have this wisdom
that you are purporting?
You are saying that the
magic door is going to open.
Have you walked
through that door?
And can you bring
it to other people?
I believe not.
I have not found
that in 40 years.
Does that mean I haven't
found anybody loving?
No.
Not in this field.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to say--
not among the
self-proclaimed teachers--
>>ROSS: That is exactly right.
>>REGINA: --but
among people, yes.
>>ROSS: The average
people, the regular people,
the Mother Teresas of the
world, the individuals,
the JR Newtons.
>>REGINA: The loving mother
of the world and mothers
of the world.
Absolutely-- fathers.
>>ROSS: They are doing it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: And the
mother who lives, say,
because the husband was
working on a car and the jack
fell and the husband
is pinned and the woman
lifts a car that five muscle
men couldn't do and releases
the husband.
I have witnessed and
seen, because I've
traveled all over the world.
>>REGINA: That's
the power of love.
>>ROSS: And this is
what has been the basis,
from the real teachers that
I have seen who don't profess
to be teachers-- they walk
their talk so that everybody
that they meet walks away from
them, including myself, going,
wow.
I don't know what
this person has,
but I feel better after
leaving their presence.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's the key.
>>ROSS: That's the key.
>>REGINA: That is the key.
So that's very
easy for all of us
to grok when we start looking
at the world around us.
Where do I go away feeling
uplifted, more powerful,
better, more inspired?
>>ROSS: But why aren't
people trusting themselves?
This is how I challenged
audiences before.
This is how I would
challenge your viewers.
What is stopping you
from understanding
that you are as wise and
have access to total wisdom
as much as all these books?
And why is it that
people are constantly
going to this weekend seminar?
And then I met people who
go, Steve, it was so intense.
I had a headache for
two days-- and that,
and then two weeks
later, they're
in another seminar and another
seminar and this course.
>>REGINA: But we have
been taught as a species
not to have faith in our
own knowledge and ourselves,
but rather to place that
in the hands of others
who are supposedly superior
in knowledge and being to us.
We've all been subject to
that on one level or another.
>>ROSS: Well, then I would say,
following what you just said,
that those people
we have been taught
should be able to walk the talk.
And yet, a majority
of them don't.
I do like what Charles Barkley
said, a basketball player.
Don't make me a role model.
I'm nobody's role model.
This man is honest, because
there's other people who
go, no, you should be-- no.
A role model is somebody
who exemplifies something
that is going to mean
more beauty for all
of us, an understanding that
life is something of beauty.
We have made it such a
colossal something or other.
>>REGINA: Chore.
>>ROSS: A chore, thank
you-- an incredible chore
that people are struggling,
struggling, struggling.
And they don't
feel good at night.
We're on more medications.
We're on more drugs.
Now, the ancient
philosophers would say,
if we aligned ourselves with
the archetype of good health,
we would increase our lifespan
a tremendous amount-- if we just
followed nature's dictums.
But we don't.
And we're back to
when we cut off
from the flows of
health, wisdom, truth--
>>REGINA: Beauty, love.
>>ROSS: Beauty and love.
>>REGINA: Nature, all of it.
>>ROSS: We stagnate.
>>REGINA: We stagnate.
>>ROSS: And we get disease.
>>REGINA: And even if
you don't die physically,
your spirit is
often to the point
where there's no real
joy in living anymore.
So it's a death of another kind.
It's a spiritual kind of
death that occurs even
before the physical death.
>>ROSS: And this is why I hope
your listeners appreciate you,
because you are stating
universal truths that are there
for all people.
And these are not
Steve Ross's truths.
That was a dream
that came through me.
But we have been talking
about a universal wisdom that
asks individuals
to be in integrity,
be consistent, and live
what you want to become.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK, now.
So that comes back
to the statement
you were talking about about
this planet being a schoolroom.
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: And one of the
things I find interesting
is-- and we talked
about this off camera,
and you had your
perspective on it--
is there is the perception
that the world is waking up,
that we're elevating
ourselves into finer
realms of consciousness,
awareness, openness, thought.
And then I started
thinking about it.
I don't really know
that that's true,
because I live in kind
of a rarefied world.
I spend my professional
life with people like you.
I live in Sedona, Arizona,
where you can talk about all
of these concepts at breakfast.
It's not an issue.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: But in the world
at large, is that so?
Has there, in one school
of thought, always
been kind of basic
percentages on this planet
because there's this
graduation and refreshment
cycle happening?
And can you talk about that?
>>ROSS: Following
my understanding,
from reading ancient
texts and really
trying to understand
the philosophers,
they classified the
Earth as a schoolroom.
Now, let's take the schoolroom
analogy and go from as above,
so below and as below, so above.
If you look at a schoolroom,
a regular schoolroom--
and let's take an
elementary school from first
to sixth grade-- it
could be that the fourth
and fifth or sixth
graders go, oh, my gosh.
What is with those first
and second graders?
>>REGINA: Kindergartners.
>>ROSS: Yeah, kindergartners--
they can't do this.
They can't do that.
But what happens is those
sixth graders graduate
and they go into another school.
Now, the idea of a school
is to have experience
in and learn lessons.
And so is it possible
that this is a schoolroom?
This allows us opportunities
in a slowed down version
to experience precepts
that we learned in spirit
but we get down here in
a practical experience.
And the people who have
learned or taken those lessons,
they go on to higher
realms of education.
They continue on.
This is the antithesis
of what I heard.
At 2012, the whole consciousness
is going to change.
And everybody's going to be
enlightened and this and that.
No, that is nonsense
because that
would be the equivalent of
going into an elementary school
and saying, you now are
all college students.
It is that fast food mentality
where you don't work.
When Christianity was
first coming out--
and it was not
called Christianity
at the beginning-- and there
were really nothing written
about Jesus at that time.
But what was talked
about was Christianity
is one of the most
dangerous religions that
has ever come on the planet.
And here's why.
It preached vicarious
atonement, which
means you can do whatever you
want, and if at the last second
you profess in someone's
name, you are forgiven.
Wow, that is a very
unusual system.
But none of the
ancients accepted that,
because that put no
responsibility on a person.
>>REGINA: I asked that
when I was in Sunday school
when I was five.
I said, that just
doesn't make any sense.
>>ROSS: And I'm sure
you endeared yourself
to the superiors at the time.
>>REGINA: No, I did not.
>>ROSS: It is a nice, wonderful,
cushy feeling and belief.
And for the people who want
to keep accepting that,
it means you don't have to
work, because for some, it
means you get baptized,
and it's all good.
You say in the name of
Jesus, it is all good.
But what did Jesus
really point out?
We're taking him, again, as
a philosopher among many,
as a teacher.
He spoke about love.
He said to Nicodemus,
you go into the closet
of your own self and
you have a direct link.
He did not say to
him, you know what?
>>REGINA: You go through me.
>>ROSS: That's right.
You don't go through me.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ROSS: You go directly.
He taught a philosophy
that was by example
every step of the way.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: And that was
what-- when he said
you need to be born again, wow.
You can go and read so
many different opinion
of what born again means.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSS: My understanding
of that was
you are now dwelling from your
spiritual higher consciousness.
You are integrity.
You are in integrity
with the higher precepts,
working from the spiritual self
rather than just the conscious
give me, bring me, I'm going
to take, I'm going to grab.
So why is our society,
in the same way,
going to fall like
the Roman Empire?
For this simple reason--
during an election
year, you monitor how
many of the politicians
are shown going into that
church-- so and so is attending
church on Sunday.
This is not voting.
They're showing
they're religious.
And then what do they
do the rest of the week?
Are they in integrity
with love and truth?
Are they integrity?
Or do they come out and say--
>>REGINA: Expeditious deals.
>>ROSS: Well, yes.
>>REGINA: People to answer to.
>>ROSS: I'm going
to do a good show.
>>REGINA: Money to answer to.
>>ROSS: They'll tell
you they profess
in turning the other cheek,
which has a different meaning
than just giving up.
But what it means
is you are looking
from a state of a higher
consciousness before you react.
In other words,
when you're struck,
you give the other cheek
because, by my understanding,
you are taking one moment more
than just instantly reacting
and being the Hatfields
and the McCoys.
You strike me, I strike you.
You are giving that
other cheek because you
are taking that
extra time to decide
how you're going to react
and what you are going to do.
>>REGINA: Taking the
higher path ideally.
>>ROSS: Always.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, that's not what's
happening in the world.
What's happening in
the world at large
is we're taking offense at every
little slap across the cheek,
and we're reacting very badly.
And I take this point
back to something
that you and I
talked about, again,
off camera, which is
natural calamities seem
to occur on Earth
when there have been
great political upheavals,
great amounts of bloodshed,
anger, blame, and so forth,
as a result of not having
the wisdom to turn
the other cheek
and take just a beat before
we react as cultures,
as political bodies.
>>ROSS: The ancients
started watching.
And as you go into
our modern era--
that these great plagues
followed very closely
on long wars, upheaval
in different areas,
despite what some people feel
that this, or that we live on,
is just to be dredged and sucked
out and blackened and polluted.
It is a living organism.
And we have cause
and effect here.
And these calamities,
these plagues,
this constant bickering
back and forth
is mirrored into the atmosphere
and back to us again.
And for those people who
don't feel that there's really
any connection
between what we do,
I saw an incredible
documentary about the wasteland
that happened in
the '30s and '40s,
where all of the mid
part of the country
went through the Dust
Bowl because of what
they were doing with the
agriculture and the land
before we lived.
But see, now, we're
back in integrity again.
We're not saying
that-- and it is not
my position of just
saying, no the world
is a 100% thinking being.
It could actually be
much greater than us.
I can't say.
But I will tell you that
cause and effect takes place
on every realm of our being.
Now, there's a term called
righteous indignation, which
means I am right, and I am
pissed off-- not a nice term--
but pissed off.
I am perfectly
right, but you know
what that does to my system?
Because my system doesn't know,
oh, Steven's right, therefore,
he's getting a free pass for--
>>REGINA: On being pissed off.
>>ROSS: Yeah, being pissed
off and raising his blood
pressure-- we're going
to give him at this.
As above, so below-- everything
that takes place in any sphere
takes place in the
higher spheres.
And so we do have
more of an effect.
And I'm not going to say which
side's right on the bickering.
But when people go to
argue only to argue,
when they dogmatically
hold to something,
and you read about
them later-- well,
I really believed in that, but
I wanted to vote with my party
because they're
gonna be pissed off--
there is not only a disconnect
in that individual person,
but in our society, in our
world, and in the cosmos.
>>REGINA: When we start
thinking politically rather than
thinking in that
place of integrity
you're talking about in general.
>>ROSS: "Mr. Smith Goes to
Washington" is long, long gone.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Well, now, what you
were just talking about,
too-- and about our impact
from an emotional standpoint
on the geological upheavals
and such of the Earth--
this is also something that
Howard Martin and the Resonance
Project, HeartMath Institute
and the Resonance Project,
have also discovered
with the various devices.
They've had sensors they've
had placed around where they
measure what happens with
the Earth in resonance
with what's going
on in the attitudes
and emotions, in particular,
of the people on that land.
And they have measured
the link between the two.
So the fact that the ancients
were able to observe this,
that where there was
war, there became
plague and calamity
geologically and otherwise.
This is very real.
So now, we have a
few minutes left.
And what I'd like to do
is we all have our areas
where we haven't
had an open mind,
we haven't had the most
beautiful heart, and so forth.
And the last one is
the humble spirit.
>>ROSS: Right.
>>REGINA: OK.
How would you, if you were
the philosopher that you are,
begin constructing--
>>ROSS: And by the way, I
appreciate you calling me that.
I always look at myself
kind of as a librarian.
>>REGINA: I know you do.
And you have a great library.
The library philosopher that you
are and the knowledge that you
have access to, which is
vast and has deep history
and meaning-- how
would you tell us just
to begin, each one of us, on our
own journey to that brilliance
and genius and intuition and
beautiful heart and love that
already exists around us,
even if we're not actually
accessing it in the moment?
>>ROSS: Right.
I understand that people have
a hesitancy in often believing
that they have any ability.
I would say that a first
step for individuals
is when a thought
comes into your mind
that you can help
another person-- maybe
you're told touch
their shoulder.
Maybe you're told
pat them on the back.
Maybe you're told to give them
and joke to make them laugh.
>>REGINA: Or just listen.
>>ROSS: Just listening.
That is coming from
a beautiful heart
where you have a desire to
help another individual,
to help the land.
In other words, this
imagination which was really
a door that the wisdom is
coming through, wherever--
that would be a whole show.
Where is that
really coming from?
Is it your higher yourself?
Is it a collection of spirits?
Is it right from god?
It really doesn't matter,
because you can't identify that
as much as you follow
what that truth is.
If it feels right, you
have permission to do it.
So the beautiful heart
is that you give out,
that you share that love.
Now, the open mind
is that you are
open to listening
to whatever that is.
You have not fallen into that
belief, that, oh my gosh,
only my teacher knows,
only my guru knows,
only this person knows.
My family doesn't think I
know what I'm talking about.
You trust yourself as a divine
child of the mother-father-god,
of the creator of the creation,
whatever's comfortable.
You wouldn't be here
if you weren't special.
You wouldn't be
here if you were not
supposed to learn that
you can do everything.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
said, Jesus, the Buddha,
Plato, they had their time.
You have your time.
You are special.
This feeling that you
are a child of wisdom,
everybody must have.
The last part is being humble.
There are a lot of people who
have written books who started
on a very nice path in our
society, and by the time
a little time goes, they're
not very humble anymore.
They're not even
very nice people.
I will never say who.
But you know, out
there, who it is
that you have a little bit of
a question about that, yes,
their teachings are good, but--
their teachings are helpful,
but-- you have to believe that
you have a right to question
if somebody's not in integrity.
So we start by understanding
that we are here
to demonstrate something.
We are creators.
We are not in the image of god
in our physical conveyance.
We are image of god in
that we are creators
and we are down here to
manage creative energies.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
maybe contemplate
what that means in terms of our
previous conversation-- of love
and beauty and,
ultimately, wisdom.
What do those words really mean?
>>ROSS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Steven,
thank you so much.
I always enjoy our
talks together,
from the previous ones
on "Healing Matrix,"
of the Rife microscope
and healing with energies
and colors and so forth, all
the way to the deeper concepts
that run far behind that.
>>ROSS: And Regina, thank you.
I always appreciate
that you provide
an opportunity for an individual
to express their understanding.
So I thank you.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Steven.
To go more in depth
into these philosophies
we've been talking about and
also modalities of healing,
you can go to wrf.org.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.